everybody wants a solution but nobody
wants to delve into the problem and see
what is the nature of the problem that
we have
the source of your power in life is your
attitude towards the world and in in
human nature it's your lens it's your
way of looking at the world
i've reset my expectations and i have a
lot of moments where i'm for no reason
at all
unhappy but if i have some moments that
are not like that i'm like
party
like this is great
it all starts with who you are because
you'll never rise any higher than what's
going on within you
[Music]
the problem with humanity is just this
that for every other creature
nature has drawn two lines
within these two lines they live and die
so their idea of full fledge is hitting
the ceiling of their life
but if a human being hits a ceiling he
gets frustrated and miserable
[Laughter]
because
nature this process of evolution has
delivered to us to a place where there
is only the bottom line there is no top
line though some human beings are trying
to breach the bottom line and go below
that effort also is going on
so essentially
what human life is is
when life was in the other forms of life
that you see on the planet
nature determined a certain compulsive
instinctive ways of functioning
once you become human
these lines have been removed
you can act consciously
that means
what you call as human potential is not
of any kind of measurable limit
it can go as far
as you desire or as far as you have the
courage to walk
so when we say human potential
unleashing human potential
it is not about reaching the peak
it is a trajectory
because
what our life is
is a combination of a certain amount of
time and
energy time is rolling away for all of
us at the same pace
if you sit it rolls away if you sleep it
rolls away if you do something it goes
away if you don't do anything it goes
away you're happy or miserable it goes
away
time is running out for all of us
so it's only the energy that you can
do different things with
if you bring your energies to a certain
level of intensity
and possibility
what somebody does in 10 years you may
do it in one year
this means if you live here for 100
years it feels like in people's impact
that you've created it feels like you
lived here for a thousand years
simply because you have managed your
life energies in a certain way
so for me
a human being being impactful means
how conscious have you become this is
very important
because if you're in compulsive cycles
then your energy gets wasted in so many
things
if you observe people
in a day let's say let's take 24 hours
in that anyway most people by
prescription in america they sleep for
eight hours
[Laughter]
so eight hours means one third of life
is gone
in the remaining two thirds they have to
eat they have to you know shower
bathroom this that all this another two
three hours gone
so literally 50
of life is gone daily basis just for
basic maintenance of this life
fifty percent of the time is gone in
maintenance remaining fifty percent what
they have
if you look at every single move that
they may make with their body their
thought process their emotions you will
see a whole lot of it is happening in
compulsive cycles
or in other words
if you a little sensitive to life
you will realize you are the biggest
issue in your life
so this is one thing
that i'm trying to do with people that
you are never the issue in your life
i'm not the issue my thought my emotion
my body is never the issue
my thought my emotion my energy and my
body are my instruments of function they
are not impediments in my life
but i would say for 90 of the human
beings their own body
then the compulsions of the body the
compulsions of their thought the
compulsions of their emotions
are ruling them most of the time
so when you yourself are a problem
well
your own self-help how have you so rats
will die if you breed them to produce no
dopamine yeah you can put food eight
inches from their face and they'll
starve to death yes which is crazy so
how are you i mean writing a book is
brutally difficult
right so
it's not that i'm i want to be a rat
without any dopamine and i couldn't even
if i wanted to um
but
when i notice myself
striving
i that's that's at the moment where i go
nope
don't don't do that anymore did you
finish the book
oh well that's
the writing was pure joy for me not
would you have done it if it had stopped
being fun halfway through
it stops being fundamental oh there are
times when it's not fun i mean there are
times when it's not fun what i'm trying
to say is if if i had if no one had ever
read it
i would have enjoyed writing it anyway
it was really pure practice
[Laughter]
truly but it's interesting that you you
think of it as not strong my frame or
like my
sort of you know the way that i think
about it is is opposite to the way that
you think about it but it sounds like
we've gotten to the same place thinking
that's what's utterly interesting and so
that's why i think i think
that this is really about neurochemical
management so you and i are trying to
get to the same state of what i'll call
fulfillment yeah so it's oftentimes
doing hard things but with meaning and
purpose behind it right and so you're
doing these hard things which you talk
about this very eloquently in the book
about that that registers on the pain
side right so you've got all these
gremlins which we didn't even talk about
this so if you over indulge on the
pleasure you get this rebalancing to the
pain right but if you do hard effortful
things right you rebound on the pleasure
side and it's purely physiologic that's
right and so i think you and i have done
the same thing which is realized oh if i
do this really hard stuff which kind of
registers on the pain side right but
there's meaning and purpose behind this
then i will feel amazing yes
or at least not feel awful and again
that's also where i think i've reset my
expectations
to um if i'm not miserable in this
moment and i have a lot of moments where
i'm for no reason at all
unhappy which i just take as part of the
human condition but if i have some
moments that are not like that i'm like
party
like this is great
you have to tell your brain what you
want
because it's always listening and if you
don't know what you want and i ask
all of my patients what do you want
they'll talk about money
or they'll
like i have a
17 almost 18 year old daughter
and she's had two boyfriends
and i've dismissed them both but it's
like what do you want
and they talk about money
and i'm like
no
that's a side effect
of
a meaningful purposeful
life
having that is the goal is a terrible
goal
and
i like money i always say to my team no
margin no mission right you have to make
money but if that's the point that's the
prescription for unhappiness
and
i've always
and i got this when i was a medical
student
it's
people get burned out
when they become unbalanced
and so when i ask my patients what they
want
relationships
work
money it's important but it can't be the
thing right
physical emotional spiritual health what
do you want in a balanced way
because if you know
then you're more likely to get it
so for
example you've met tana
i want a kind caring loving supportive
passionate relationship with my wife
i always want that
but i don't always feel like that
but when i'm thoughtful
when i know my goals because they're
posted
i'm so much more likely to act like that
which means i'm going to have a great
marriage
especially if she has clear goals too
and we have similar goals for our
relationship
do you guys talk about your goals all
the time and when you say they're posted
where are they posted
so i have them posted in my bathroom and
i have them on my phone
very smart and and so
everything it comes out i love like
three letter three word sentences or
three weird questions
and like for the ans is it true
and for goals is does it fit does my
behavior
today
fit the goals i have for my life
see people are
have divided the universe
this is important this is not important
this person is important for me this
person is not important this is
important for me that's not important
for me
you divided the universe you will never
know anything this way
indiscriminate focus indiscriminate
attention
i am not attending to you because you
are somebody with a cobra in your heart
all right
it doesn't matter who i speak to who i
am with i'm the same way
indiscriminate
only when your attention and involvement
is indiscriminate
does the universe open up to you
you have discriminated
naturally you close you know people come
to me and say sadhguru i want to walk
the spiritual path
i say okay
be here for three days
let's see what we can do so no such
group day after tomorrow my uncle's
daughter's birthday i have to go oh you
want to get enlightened
and day after tomorrow uncle's
daughter's birthday also all right
we got one and a half days
you do one thing you do this this and
this i say sakura but i don't like this
all right i'll give them a small piece
of paper
and say okay write down things that you
like will do only do that
you won't believe it in this entire
universe most people like only three or
four things
when
you're so constipated in your head
that you lack only three or four people
or three or four things in your life how
do you want to open up to the existence
because life is happening because of its
openness
this is a fundamental difference between
death and life is
people are thinking is just breath all
right on one level that is also openness
whether you allow this to happen or you
don't allow it to happen
whether you did it consciously or
unconsciously but it's happening isn't
it openness is on every subatomic
particle is in communication with
everything that's why this is going on
breath is happening so much is happening
in connection with everything it is only
in openness you're alive
as you close doors you're dying in
installments
dying in installments is torture
you're never going to make history
dominate your domain and hand craft a
world-class life if you've got a great
psychology but you're carrying the pain
and sadness disappointment and trauma of
the past
so i worked on my heart that's only the
second interior empire the third
interior empire your health set don't
die if you want to change the world like
dead people don't change the world
so health set
by biohacking there's a whole chapter on
recovery and the essentialness of sleep
so really getting your health set right
but
there's a fourth interior empire that i
worked on
that allowed me to go out in the world
and and pursue my my magic
and
it's a little dangerous for me to share
because i know how many business people
you know follow you and how many
entrepreneurs but i'm going to share it
because it's my truth so it's not just
mindset it's not just heart setting it's
not just health that said it's soul set
and soul set has nothing to do with
religion soul set is about working on
your character
so you re-access your nobility and your
bravery and your authenticity
and your decency
and you find a cause that's larger than
your life
so when you go out in the world every
single morning
people might ridicule you because every
genius is ridiculed before they're
revered people might throw stones at you
but you use them to build monuments of
mastery people might not mis understand
you because any disruptor is going to be
misunderstood and even you're if you're
an army of one a galileo or a
steve jobs or how phil knight
you continue at all costs so those four
interior empires that i go into detail
in in the book give you a fiery inner
core of warriorship and leadership that
allow you to go out in the world and do
amazing things but it all starts with
who you are because you'll never rise
any higher than what's going on within
you i use affirmations a lot too that's
one of the miracle morning practices is
affirmations and affirmations i think
have a kind of a bad rap you know like
stuart smalley you know i'm good enough
i'm smart enough and people like me and
then they're taught by like a lot of
self-help pioneers is like lie to
yourself if you want to be a millionaire
just say i am a millionaire over and
over and over until you believe it right
but
we're if we know the truth you're like i
am a millionaire you know your brain's
like dude no you're not right you're
like shut up i'm doing my affirmations
right like so the point is
the way that i view affirmations is they
simply direct your focus on wherever you
want your focus directed so you can
literally like a computer program you
can go okay what are the beliefs that i
want to focus on so they expand inside
of me even the thoughts that i want to
focus on what are my values what are the
behaviors that i need to embody right so
so you read these affirmations every day
and you're programming yourself to live
in alignment with that program that
you've designed right
so i had these my anti-cancer
affirmations which i still have um i use
those to manage my mindset right so if i
have a fear
i will look at what's the opposite of
the fear what's possible so i could die
yes
does focusing on that i might die and
dwelling on that and right and thinking
about that and going down that rabbit
hole and most people live they live with
their fear that's where their focus is
so they're consumed by fear
right for me i go oh yeah this could
happen and that's
that's not what i want to happen so i'm
going to accept it make peace with it
and then i'm going to put all of my
energy into what i want and affirmations
to me are the best way to do that
because if we if we if we leave our
brain up to whatever it's up to dude
it's like you know it's like a pinball
bouncing around it's like negative
thought negative thought negative
thought positive negative thought
negative right and so we can't trust our
brain you know until we've conditioned
it right
the first thing
was
truly getting to a place of acceptance
right like i was in denial that this was
even happening it felt like i was in the
upside down that like the matrix is a
thing now like is this the simulation
i've in some ways at the beginning
convinced myself that there was the
possibility that this wasn't even real
really oh yeah because it just it didn't
make sense
and then i got to a place of no no this
is real
you have the responsibility to parent
these for kids
you have the responsibility to show up
for your life
how are you going to do it
and
the thing the question i started asking
was
what did i need to just become the
version of who i'd hoped to be 90 days
from now
right like the first thing i had to do
was really shrink the window of my
forward-looking vision casting where i'd
been a person doing five and ten years
here's where i'm gonna be and i could
just like a movie playing in my head
describe what it was gonna look like
i needed to understand what did i need
to do today to get myself just 90 days
into the future
and for me it ended up going through the
question of health
how might i
in the five dimensions that i've
identified as being important for me in
health mental emotional spiritual
relational and physical health
how might i have two or three things for
each of those dimensions of health
every day that might become part of my
routine and part of what ends up being
my set of habits that will allow me to
create just enough inertia from this now
standing still
i describe a sailboat in the book that
is waiting for wind right like okay i
got to at least build the sale i got to
put it up so that when the win starts to
come i'm actually prepared to move
forward and so for me it was all right
what do i need in my mental health
well i needed to see professional
freaking help on the regular i mean i
was talking to a therapist a couple
times a week
because i didn't understand why i was
thinking what i was thinking why i was
feeling what i was feeling and that
interaction
created a little bit didn't understand
it or it was erratic
one minute i can make it the next minute
no i'm never going to both
both i didn't understand
the way that the voice in my head was
being so critical of
not having had this thing that was so
important work out
i'm just an achiever by nature i've had
success in career i've had success in a
whole host of things and yet i couldn't
at the time see that my marriage not
working out wasn't a success my marriage
was a success
it just
was the end of my marriage in what had
been or the end of our relationship and
what had been as we've now transitioned
into something new but at the beginning
i saw it as a failure that i somehow had
failed
and i i was really as i'm sitting with
my therapist or having a conversation
through podcasts or books with myself
trying to understand what what could you
have done differently or what are you
meant to learn from this
and some of that work yep would allow me
just a little breadcrumb now i'm taking
one step closer to an answer that over
what now is almost two years worth of
time had me really come to appreciate i
am who i have become
not in spite of what happened but
because of what happened and that as
much as
i had this bold declaration at the end
of 2019
2020 is going to be my best year ever i
have like publicly declared that 45 was
the year of my life that i was waiting
for this best year to happen
and what i couldn't appreciate then that
i see so clearly now is that i was not
ever going to be the person who could
dictate the conditions that would bring
my best forward
right and so yeah if in some ways i
brought on some of what ends up
happening in 2020 i apologize for the
pandemic and anything else i may have
been responsible for i don't think that
for real
but i also
right like i i prayed that certain
things that happened would never have
happened and i was doing so at the
expense of how
that cause and effect relationship
produced
the best
i wouldn't have been brought to my knees
in a way that brought me closer to my
spiritual walk i wouldn't have had the
way that this divorce created closeness
with my kids the kind of relationship
that comes out of it i wouldn't have
spent the kind of time in physical
transformation really but your physical
transformation is crazy
crazy no thank you but like it is
you know moving my body and pushing
myself to do things physically has been
an exercise in showing myself that i can
do things that go beyond what i believed
myself to be capable of
so that i could take that experience in
the physical realm
and believe it in the mental and
emotional realm oh you can also handle
things mentally you can handle things
emotionally that go wildly beyond what
you believed yourself to be capable of
because you now have proof you have
evidence in this other part of your life
body transformation is the most
underutilized mental transformation tool
ever
and the number of people that i've seen
whether it's in business whether it's
you know in something like a divorce or
your career whatever
where
when you show yourself that you can set
an intention go and lift a progressively
heavier weight and your body actually
changes you look different you feel
different
and you can actually pick up heavier
things like that there's something that
goes on of like oh what if the same
thing is happening in my mind you can't
see it in such a tangible way but when
you go through a physical transformation
like that it really does leave you with
something truly profound whenever you
feel sad or mad or nervous or out of
control write out what you're thinking
and then
it's five questions but it's is it true
is it absolutely true with a hundred
percent certainty
and that's the one that usually cracks
it
like um worthless
is it absolutely true
now you're getting thoughtful it's like
well i'm a mother
and i'm a sister and i'm a daughter
and
no it's not absolutely true it's
ridiculous
the third question is how do i feel
when i believe i'm worthless
[Music]
dead
withering
sad
lonely
and the fourth question is who would i
be without the thought or how would i
feel if i didn't have the thought
the most common answer to that one is
free
and then
you flip it around
to the opposite
it's like
i
am worth something
or i have work
and then
give me an example
or two or three or four
and you have to do that exercise at
least 100 times
to begin to retrain your
automatic response
i mean i've been teaching people to kill
ants for a long time automatic negative
thoughts but i just found these
five questions they're just so elegant
to just have a dialogue
with yourself i'll never be successful
or i won't have enough money
or my life has no meaning
it's like
well let's put that under a microscope
not positive thinking
accurate
thinking
all human experience has a chemical
basis to it
right now let's say you're joyful
if you look at your chemistry it'll be
in a certain way
let's say you are miserable
if you check your chemistry it'll be a
completely different way
now we have a technology
that with which you create a chemistry
of blissfulness
so my chemistry is blissful
doesn't matter what's happening
the drama around me is happening in so
many different ways but
this is a privilege that i've kept for
myself
me being joyful or miserable
me being
peaceful or
disturbed
these privileges i have not given it to
anybody else i kept them to myself i
think every human being should do that
that the privileges of the nature of
your experience must be in your hand
because when you try to act in the world
there are many many forces
all of them will not always cooperate
sometimes they cooperate many times
they will not cooperate many times
they'll turn against you this is the
nature of the world that's how it should
be
world will never happen 100 your way and
i'm glad it is so because if it all
happened your way where do i go
[Laughter]
i'm glad it's not happening your way
little bit my way a little bit your way
a little bit somebody else's way that's
how the world should be the very meaning
of life is to see how many skills you
can acquire that have utility and then
put those skills to use in the service
of something bigger than yourself but
the only way that you're going to be
able to do that is to build into the
core of your being
the ability to endure
life is hard life is going to kick you
in the face there are going to be a
thousand times in your life when you're
going to want to give up and the only
thing that is going to see you through
the only thing that's going to make sure
that you actually [__] endure is your
mindset and if you get that right if you
lay the foundation for that if you put
all the pieces in place
then you're going to persevere then
you're going to push through then you're
going to be able to see things through
to the end but if you don't do that then
you're going to
break and that's what i see happen to so
many people and that's where my own life
started was not believing in myself
and that is one of the most important
things for you to understand is that
your mindset is one of the most
important feeders into your perspective
and perspective is everything
and the first
most important decision that we all have
to make and this is one of my favorite
einstein quotes is each and every one of
us has to decide whether we live in a
friendly or a hostile universe
and understanding that that is a choice
that's the critical part and a lot of
people don't see that as a choice they
believe that the universe is either
working with them or it's working
against them and it's just a matter of
fact it isn't something that's open to
interpretation and what i want you guys
to understand
with the whole mindset 101 course is one
very simple thing
it is a decision it's something that you
have to decide and whatever it is that
you decide you're going to end up seeing
the evidence for that so you have to be
really careful whether you decide that
life is difficult it's the slew of
things that's coming at you that's
trying to break you and nothing ever
good happens to you or if you choose to
believe no matter what happens to you
you can always choose your response you
can always choose to believe that it's
happening for you and not to you and in
that perspective
in having that mindset then you're going
to begin to look for the solutions
you're going to look for the ways out
you're going to look for the lesson that
you can learn in the hardship
that
is mindset it's a subset of beliefs
about what you're capable of
and what the world really is at its
foundation whether it's working for you
or against you so understand that these
things are all a choice what is that my
friends i am very excited to announce
that impact theory's major web 3 project
codenamed the avatar project is almost
here as most of you know for the past
year we've been focused on building the
future of this company in web 3. if
you've already joined us as a founder's
key holder you know exactly what i'm
talking about we have so many different
reveals for the project coming up guys
including the real name glimpses of the
characters the world and more so invite
you to join me in my discord channel for
more information and frequent
competitions and challenges when you
click the link on the screen you can
accept that invite and once you verify
that you're not a robot
with or without any knowledge of web3
you'll instantly be a part of the most
empowering community i've ever put
together and will make sure to keep you
up to date with upcoming news about
avatar get ready to level up click the
link and join me in the discord until
then be legendary take care peace
you know you're here only because you
can see
hear smell taste and touch this is the
only way you know that you're here right
now
suppose your toes off don't okay suppose
you doze off
you don't know that you're here isn't it
yes
even though you're here
your heart is beating everything is
functioning the world is on we are all
here but you won't know that you're here
nor will you know that i am here or
anybody else is here isn't it yes all
that's happened is life is on full-on
even within you only thing is these five
sensory organs have shut down
so your entire experience of life right
now is happening because you can see
here smell taste and touch
just look at the nature of the sensory
organs in the very nature
they're outward bound isn't it
can you roll your eyeballs inward and
scan yourself no
this is a shall i give you a bad example
sorry
your our nose is located night right
above our mouth
suppose you don't brush your teeth for
three days
[Music]
though this nose is right here it won't
tell you you have not brushed your teeth
the whole room will know you have not
brushed your teeth but you will not know
this is the human predicament
it's very easy to see what's wrong with
this guy what's wrong with her what's
wrong with her
it's very it takes a lot of observation
to see what's wrong with
this that
level of keenness of observation is
missing in most people they need to
cultivate that
i've discovered in
my meditation that the way the brain
works is continually telling us stories
about the world about ourselves about
the way people are and i don't mean
stories in it's literally what i'm
saying it's like constructed like a
story it has a narrative arc to it right
this is what happened to me and and and
the story is constructed and this is the
result and what the story i'm telling
myself might not be the correct story at
all right so being able to understand
what really happened what is the
actually the story that that occurred
there is extremely important and so
you're hitting on the bedrock which is
extremely fundamental which is
do you believe that you're capable of
change
do you believe that good things happen
when you go through a process of
learning and taking steps do you believe
going back to your belief that you can
actually get out of your patterns
because you can be fooling yourself you
can be bullshitting you can be saying
yeah i kind of do but deep down inside
you don't really want to do it because
believe it or not your bad patterns give
you a degree of comfort right it's
something that you know
and to get out of them you're suddenly
thrust into the unknown and that could
be very frightening so you could be
holding on to these bad patterns so the
belief that
i can change
i can actually do something different in
my life i can actually recreate myself i
can actually learn things i can actually
rewire my brain because the brain is
incredibly plastic even at the age of 40
50 you can change your career you can
learn new skills you know i've reached
60 i'm constantly learning as well the
brain is insanely plastic do you believe
that do you believe that you have the
possibility to change yourself to alter
your patterns that's probably the single
most important thing right there and to
get people to believe that as i said
there's two levels there's the people
who shake their head yeah yeah yeah
they'll read mastery but it won't mean
anything to them because
they're afraid
of the change
they're comfortable with a degree of
failure i hate to say
because if you don't try things you
never have to deal with the
responsibility the pain of failure right
so you don't really want to change deep
down inside you don't really believe in
tom's number one
bedrock belief right you're kind of
fooling yourself
so it's not a fairy tale it's not a
bunch of a myth that we're creating it's
true that you have the power the brain
if you just understood this one thing
that the brain is like a landscape it's
like a landscape out in the world that
you see where things can be lush and
tropical or they can be completely arid
and dead
you create that landscape yourself you
create the brain that you have by the
degree of how you're open to experience
by the degree of how much you learn
about the degree of how many different
sources of information you take in you
can create this incredibly alive brain
that's very creative imaginative and how
much more fun will your life be if
you're open and you let things come in
and new ideas come in so
it's up to you you're the one that's
creating your misery it's creating your
patterns it's and it comes down to that
bedrock one belief that you just
mentioned
well i think there's a through line of
change as a thing that's a constant in
our lives there's change that we choose
we've
become fed up with the status quo or
normal being okay with being okay we
decide that we're going to finally
create the courageous first steps in
making that change a thing that gets us
closer to who we're meant to be or the
version of what becoming looks like for
us and then there's the change that
chooses us
in that
we think we have some control that
illusion
is a thing that we can connect to until
we wake up one day and there's a
diagnosis there's a job that no longer
exists a relationship that ends
and in a world where
i had as the pillar one of the biggest
pillars of my identity husband to rachel
the change choosing me in this the end
of our marriage was something that
i now didn't know who i was in the
absence of not being who i'd been
and in a world where we were also
working together
that identity of what i did
and what i thought i'd do for the rest
of my life was something that in a
single swoop was pulled out
and now required that i
in having been handed this blank piece
of paper
go through the work of trying to fill
out what next look like and
i say in the book and i've said it
plenty of times it's both parts
exhilarating and terrifying at the
beginning it's way more terrifying than
it is exhilarating
but that's part of what courage ends up
being a required ingredient for turning
the terrifying into the exhilarating
because
when you realize other there is no
control
there's only the way that we respond to
the circumstances that life presents or
the way that we in choosing change
manufacture new
events or a new new road a new map that
we ultimately end up sailing off of
that still because it ends up being
different than something we've
previously been familiar with or gotten
the hang of or have comfort with
requires courage to step into it
well it's kind of what the subject uh
sort of what the daily laws is about
there's there's two things
so um
you know the the source of your power in
life
is your attitude towards the world and
in in human nature i kind of describe
what i believe an attitude is it's your
lens it's your way of looking at the
world everybody's lens is different
you're not seeing things exactly as they
are you're seeing them filtered through
how you look at them
some people are so important yeah some
people are optimistic and adventurous
some people are anxious and closed and
you could put two people in the same
circumstances visiting the same place
the pessimistic anxious person will find
it unpleasant people are rude i don't
like it the adventurous exploring type
will find the circumstances very
exciting but it's the same thing it's
just you're judging in a different way
so the lens that you want you want a
lens that clarifies things you want a
lens that's realistic that you're trying
to see things as they are
right it's good to be excited but
sometimes if you're too excited and too
adventurous you're going to walk right
up to that tiger and they're going to
eat you alive sometimes you have to be a
little bit wary of things you have to
see your circumstances
for what they are in military terms they
call it situational awareness you're
very aware crystal clear about who you
are
about who other people are about what
the world is like so that's the attitude
that you want to craft for yourself in
this world and it's very difficult as
you've been saying very eloquently the
cards are stacked against you a because
of how we're wired you know our brains
developed 200 000 years ago
in circumstances that certainly aren't
the way things are now so we're so
there's kind of a a gap there between
you know how how we're wired to think
and what's going on in the 21st century
and b we're dealing with technology
that's making things harder
so you your goal in life is to become
more realistic
to be able to step back and look at
things as they are
and how do you get there is the question
so first you have to see that as your
goal and it has to be important to you
it has to be something that you want and
it's not just something that's cold and
dry and scientific there's something the
book has a lot of analogies around the
sea i am not one that even likes the sea
which is hilarious but uh cover over
your book is the ocean the cover of the
book is the ocean i'm seasick thinking
about it but the the there's this
interesting relationship that all of us
have
to
familiarity to comfort to the status quo
things we know
that
has us in some ways deitizing or putting
up on a pedestal
the
conceit that what has been will be
in a way that doesn't allow us to even
consider
leaving what we've known and if you know
like the suggestion the book is you
can't actually make it to the other side
of the ocean unless you lose sight of
the shore that other side of the ocean
being
the fulfillment of your fullest
potential or connecting to that idea of
honoring your the measure of your
creation right you have been created for
purpose but that purpose requires that
you get outside of your safe harbor
become unmoored and ultimately
enduring the choppy waters believing
though that you were built for those
choppy waters and then having the
courage to continue sailing once you've
now lost sight of what was familiar and
the the idea of that safe harbor even if
it's connected to suffering right like
we as people
have in some ways convinced ourselves
that we are willing to stay inside of
suffering that we know
rather than facing the possibility of
something new
because the knowns of that existing
suffering feel predictable
and life wasn't meant for suffering i
mean like
it doesn't mean that you're not going to
have to go through hard times or bad
times but you can decide to push away
from it the challenge in pushing away
though is that that safe harbor is
surrounded on all sides by fear
and the only way to get to learning the
only way to get to growth and my
argument is that you have to be growing
in order to feel a sense of fulfillment
if you're not growing you're dying and
in that death state
you will not feel the things that you
are hoping to feel when you're by
yourself
but there's no drawbridge around the
moat there is emote of fear
and so the courage piece just suggests
that
you are not going to eliminate fear just
because you decide to be courageous
you're going to become prepared to face
your fear
which is the thing that's necessary in
that journey that has to go through it
in order to become
so we have to face our fear or we will
stay stuck we will stay inside of this
familiar place the comfort zone the
suffering we know at the expense of who
we could become everybody wants a
solution but nobody wants to delve into
the problem and see what is the nature
of the problem that we have
the nature of the problem is like this
why are we compulsive what is it that's
compulsive about us
compulsion means we are going to the
same place again and again that means
we're going in circles
the nature of physical existence in the
universe is such
whether you take an atom an individual
atom or the cosmic space
everything that's physical is always in
cyclical movement
the atoms are doing their circles the
solar system is doing his stuff the
galaxies are doing their stuff our own
bodies are going through cycles in fact
we are born
because of the cycles in our mother's
bodies that's why we are born
so entire physical nature is born out of
cyclical movement that means
compulsiveness so do not misunderstand
compulsiveness as something bad it's the
basis of your existence
it is a good platform
but you're supposed to stand on the
platform and act
right now you have become the platform
so somebody else will dance on you